[AUDIO LOGO]
>>STEWART PEARCE: Diana
was immensely gracious
and very yielding to the
power of significance.
But at the same time,
she was an observer.
She knew that she
had a unique destiny.
She didn't quite know
how to fulfill it.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
She was a modern day
princess out of a fairy tale.
But it wasn't a fairy tale.
And that's the time
that we're in now,
is deconstructing what we
have put up as fairy tales.
Taking people off of pedestals.
That's really what we're
charged with doing.
Do you believe that her
death was accidental,
or do you believe
that she was killed?
>>PEARCE: I think it was
even more crude than that.
Well, we each have our own note.
We each have a signature sound.
But most of us don't make it.
(HIGHER-PITCHED
VOICE) And therefore,
our voices are like this.
Indeed.
Well, I mean, this
is the sound that
is spreading through
the Western world.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>PEARCE: But it's not
in touch with my note.
There's a sound at the very
core of the vocal compass
in our bodies, that
if we express it,
it automatically expresses the
whole substance of who we are.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA: Certainly one of
the most intriguing women
of the 20th century
was Princess Diana.
Everybody put their
own story on her,
and her own story was
complicated enough.
But one thing that
stood clear is
that the world thought
she was beautiful
and offered a type of
kindness and generosity
through her projects.
Stewart Pearce says the
story runs deeper than that.
And he knew her well.
Welcome back.
>>PEARCE: Oh, bless you.
>>REGINA: It's so
good to see you again.
>>PEARCE: I always find it
fascinating the way that,
when I'm being interviewed,
people introduce the nature--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: --of Diana.
So thank you.
Thank you.
It's wonderful to be here.
>>REGINA: It's been, gosh,
six, seven years since I last
had you on set with me.
>>PEARCE: Well, something
happened called COVID.
>>REGINA: COVID, yes, OK.
And that voice you just
did, we're going to be--
we're going to go into that.
Because something
has happened that's
changed the voices of
the people of the world.
But first, we start with Diana.
And Diana did have
a complicated life.
And there was something--
I never met her.
I know people who have met her.
You knew her.
There was something
truly luminous
just about her
presence alone that
captivated people and offered
a kind of grace into the world.
In spite of all the troubles
that were going on in her life
behind the scenes, something
in her transcended that.
But still, there was a part of
her that was a frightened girl.
And you met her and
helped her out of that.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
Yes.
Well, I believe that
that was always there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PEARCE: And if she
were still alive,
it would always still be there.
But of course, there's a
frightened child within me.
The question is, well, do
we live that all the time
or is there another choice?
And so, when I met Diana, she
was at this peak performance
moment of revealing herself
through the Martin Bashir
panorama interview,
which, of course, has gone
right in the annals of history.
>>REGINA: Right.
[CLEARS THROAT]
>>PEARCE: And what she
was really proud of
was what she'd revealed.
But she didn't really like
the way that she came across.
(SOFTER TONE) I mean,
looking through this way
and speaking in this very--
>>REGINA: Looking
under her eyelashes.
>>PEARCE: --voice, you know?
She didn't feel that it
was an empowered statement
of this svelte executive
woman of the world.
But it was still full of her
grace and full of her charm
and full of her fun.
So that's really principally
why we started working together,
to empower that.
>>REGINA: And the
press around the world
have all written
about her differently.
But one of the things
that seemed clear
is that she was there
to show the cracks
in the old patriarchal
and monarchal system.
And that time for revision
had arrived, I think.
And Diana certainly, in
sharing what she shared,
pushed that forward probably
faster than anybody else.
Would you agree with that?
>>PEARCE: Oh, absolutely.
She was an archetypal key in
the movement of these times
that we live in, these
extraordinary times, which
we can refer to as
being contemporaneous.
But really the modern
period from the Second War
has built to this
time of vast change,
and particularly for
you amazing women,
as you women step forward and
discover your own empowerment.
So she was an archetypal key
in the whole of that process.
Otherwise, how can we explain
that phenomenon of her death?
And 3.9 billion people,
which at that time
was over half the population
of the planet moving into--
>>REGINA: Yes, it was like--
>>PEARCE: --major collective
nervous breakdown.
>>REGINA: And she did.
She absolutely
fascinated people.
Everybody had a different
idea of who she was,
what her background
and story was.
But we were transfixed
with her, and everyone
felt the beauty and grace.
I think that is absolute.
And so it was interesting
to me following the lives--
I've always, for
whatever reasons,
followed the lives
of the Royal Family,
read a fair amount about them.
And with Diana, something
happened that was interesting.
Because she was trapped,
herself, in this arrangement.
The arrangement was made.
And then she learned
along the way
her husband was in
love with someone else.
Very painful for
a young girl who's
taking on this role
and a new husband
and bringing a family
into the world.
And so here you have a lot
of confluence of events.
Charles is saying, Mummy, why
are you making me marry someone
I don't want to marry?
I love Camilla.
And that was the time.
Diana saying, (SOFTER
VOICE) well, it
seems like the right thing
to do, and he's lovely
and I love him,
and let's do this.
And so everybody
took their places
on a stage that was not
authentic for anybody.
And then she, of course,
lived through a lot
of the horrors of it and
had a very difficult time
emotionally.
So at what point in
her did she shift over
from realizing she's
not going to have
the love of her husband,
that's not happening,
so she can do something
else and then become
a voice to the world or
a princess of the people,
as she became known?
Tell us a little bit about how
you understood that transition
and what that
really meant to her.
>>PEARCE: Well, the
way of answering it
is really looking
into the idea of,
what is it to be an
empowered person today?
And more specifically,
what is it
to be an empowered woman today?
And she was surrounded by
some very extraordinary women
who were remarkable in
their own capacities.
>>REGINA: Mentors.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
Well, influencers, shall we say.
They were mentors,
sure, but influencers.
Because Diana was immensely
gracious and very yielding
to the power of
significance and was
a really great appreciator
of heritage and tradition.
But at the same time,
she was an observer--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: --of that state.
And therefore, she knew that
she had a unique destiny.
She didn't quite know
how to fulfill it.
It was something that
organically tumbled out
of her, so to speak,
or her responses
to certain social situations.
For example, the
announcement, I am no longer--
I can no longer really
be in a relationship--
I'm paraphrasing-- but,
where there are three people.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>PEARCE: I mean, this is--
>>REGINA: Fair enough.
>>PEARCE: --woman of
the world, isn't it?
And hey, she didn't lose
her head as a result,
[LAUGHS] which was very much a--
>>REGINA: Nice thing
about modern times.
Or end up in the tower.
>>PEARCE: And I think
that's a joke that--
or rather a statement
that Fergie made,
that the Duchess of York made.
Because she'd also
experienced something
very similar during the
time when she divorced
Andrew, although their situation
was slightly more salacious,
shall we say, which we're seeing
more and more now with Andrew.
So Diana was extraordinarily
unique in this way,
that she was highly impetuous
but responded instinctively
to the action of the moment
and developed amazing strength
and fiber out of each
moment of empowerment
that she moved through.
That didn't mean to
say that she wouldn't
go back to KP, Kensington
Palace, and weep for hours.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
I've read all the books.
>>PEARCE: That was releasing
all of the uptight energy that
was necessary.
I mean, she was immensely
vital and honest
about her feeling state.
>>REGINA: She wasn't
a repressed person,
which was really required of
the old members of the monarchy.
And even today, you
still see it today.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Even with
the young ones today.
>>PEARCE: Yes.
I was thinking, it's interesting
being in these situations,
reviewing the story
that I've told
so much over the years
of printing this book,
publishing this book.
And how I address
it with you, because
of your unique perception of how
you see this particular vessel,
this woman moving forward as
the person that she was and more
perhaps in her legacy.
She was really rewriting
that whole scenario,
where, evidently,
something needed
to take place within the
establishment of the British
Royal Family.
It's just that if
you're living inside it,
why does this need to change?
Because it's an
extraordinary enclave.
It seems fine.
As far as we are concerned, we
look at behaviors and we say,
well, maybe that wasn't
quite as appropriate.
I don't mean now.
I'm talking about
25, 30 years ago.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PEARCE: And she came
along and thought,
well, I can't live this way.
I'm really going to find
the honesty and the grace
to bring about change.
>>REGINA: Because the others
went through their divorces.
This was not uncommon.
Elizabeth had
other children that
were divorced before Charles.
>>PEARCE: That was the thing.
This was the huge
revolution that took place.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Her children, most of
them were divorced.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And the heir to the
throne, of course, Charles,
received the majority
of the attention
in that way because
of the third party,
which was known
from the beginning.
Since he was a kid, he'd been
in love with Camilla, right?
And so the overriding
of the heart,
I think that's what's
happened throughout
these obliged marriages.
And so Diana simply came out
and talked about it and said,
this is what it feels
like from my end,
of having to deal with it.
>>PEARCE: Extraordinary
courage and honesty.
You know, that level
of transparency,
which I feel that we can see
just by matter of context,
we can see in the
behavior of her youngest.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: Who obviously went
through two-and-a-half years
of psychotherapy.
Otherwise, he was going to
lose the love of his life,
meaning Meghan.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PEARCE: And what
happens, of course,
when we go into that degree
of transparency or honesty
is that we get really honest.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, she was very honest and
she was honest with the press,
and she lived her life
very openly after that.
And we all know, we were
probably all-- if we were
alive at the time,
we all remember when
we heard about Diana's death.
And we were probably
glued to our televisions
for the days following that.
I certainly was.
>>PEARCE: Well, it
was huge, wasn't it?
>>REGINA: It was huge because so
much was brought to the table.
It was more than just her.
And as if that weren't a lot.
>>PEARCE: Well, that's the point
of being an archetypal key,
isn't it?
That this is a
human being that we
may see as an
ordinary human being,
because she had an immediacy
and an authenticity
and an easy play about her the
way that she approached people.
So she could walk into a
room and literally just suss
out the room, really coordinate
herself through the room.
Nothing was ever a
veneer or put on.
She would just simply
go right into what
was most necessary, how to
dispatch the exquisiteness
of her energy.
Yeah, I keep coming back
to the theme of immediacy.
That's the gift that she gave.
Because every single person that
is aware of this human being,
when she was either
alive or now dead,
feels they have their
own personal story.
It's really extraordinary.
I've discovered so much as a
result of publishing this book.
>>REGINA: So many people have
put their stories on her.
Because she was a modern day
princess out of a fairy tale.
But it wasn't a fairy tale.
And that's the time
that we're in now,
is deconstructing what we
have put up as fairy tales.
Taking people off of pedestals.
That's really what
we're charged with doing
at this time in history.
Nonetheless, so many
questions following this.
But one thing that happened
is in this community watching
this, the Gaia
community, certainly many
were privy to a lot
of conspiracy theories
that were going
around at the time.
And so let's just get
this one off the table.
Do you believe that her
death was accidental,
a result of paparazzi?
Do you believe that
it was arranged?
Just, this is your opinion.
You don't have to speak
for anyone but yourself.
Or do you believe that she
was killed in some way?
Was this something
more ritualistic?
>>PEARCE: I think it was
even more crude than that.
I think she was got rid of.
But I'm not really
interested in that,
to be honest, because it's
pretty obvious that that's
what's happened.
>>REGINA: So she
was gotten rid of.
>>PEARCE: What I'm
interested in is
the effect that her death
had on billions and billions
and billions of people.
And that I find extraordinary.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, it was in the book,
and I posed the question.
So I thought I needed
to ask you out loud.
So we're done with that.
So this is what I want to
get to, is one of the things
that you-- well,
you've been coaching.
You've been doing
voice coaching.
You've been doing empowerment
coaching for many years
now to a lot of
well-known people.
You started in theater yourself.
So when you were
working with Diana,
let's start talking
about what you
did to help her gain
her voice and what
is the most critical
element for each one of us
in finding our authentic
powerful voice.
>>PEARCE: Well, we
each have our own note.
We each have a signature sound,
but most of us don't make it.
And so the big question
is, well, why is that?
So we don't produce it
because we're moved away
from the authenticity
of our beings,
even though many
of our teachers,
or our guides, or
our mentors, as we
go through the
educational process,
would say that they're nudging
us towards our authenticity.
What I believe is happening
is they're really nudging us
towards being able to
inhabit the system, which
for me is pure cerebralization.
(LOUDER TONE) And so
what we tend to do
is live in the upper
part of our bodies.
And therefore, our
voices are like this.
>>REGINA: You sound like
every parliamentarian.
>>PEARCE: Indeed.
Well, I mean, this
is the sound that
is spreading through
the Western world.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>PEARCE: But it's not in
touch with my note, do you see?
As soon as I go here into the
fullness of who I am all about.
And if I can just extrapolate
for a second, what
I mean by our note
is that there's
a sound at the very core of
the vocal compass in our bodies
right at the very core of our
being that if we express it,
it automatically expresses the
whole substance of who we are.
It is the song of our soul.
>>REGINA: Our note.
>>PEARCE: And I
call it our note.
But actually, to
say it's a note--
because a note means a
frequency or a pitch--
it's actually supported by
a field of resonance, which
allows it to feel as though
if I speak through here,
through my heart,
which is my note,
the words arise from the
heart, they enter the heart.
(LOUDER TONE) If words
arise from the tongue alone,
they don't pass beyond the ears.
You can see the significance--
>>REGINA: That hurts.
>>PEARCE: --that it has.
[LAUGHS] I'm shocked
at how many people's
voices hurt my ears now.
>>PEARCE: Well, we've
all been conditioned
by an educational process.
We've all been socialized
in a certain way.
So that we've
literally become, dare
I say, automaton about
the way that we use sound.
Our voices are no longer used
as indexes for our character.
I mean, that's a quote directly
from Benjamin Disraeli.
If we go back into our
history, our voices
were right at the very core of
the substance of who we were.
That's the meaning of
the word "persona."
Persona means through sound.
So somebody's absolute
integrity or quality
was literally resonated
through their sound.
So the Romans and the
Greeks worked on it.
>>REGINA: So when
they've looked at studies
of people and their
comfort or discomfort
with others, whether
it's societal,
racial, class, et cetera, the
one thing that binds people
and that allows
people to trust one
another more than color of
skin, more than social status,
is their speech.
If they hear a voice
that resonates with them,
they can go into a state
of relaxation and trust,
even if the person is
very, very different.
Above all things, it's voice.
It's speech.
>>PEARCE: Well, sound is
at the core of creation.
We all know this.
Whether we're a so-called
civilized-- living
in civilized societies, or
as an Indigenous people,
sound is right at the very core.
>>REGINA: And you have to
have the sound that is--
in the sense of what
I was talking about,
the sound that is
familiar to you,
regardless of all
other circumstances,
is the person that
you will most trust.
>>PEARCE: Familiar to us,
meaning we have to fit in.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>PEARCE: And so the
majority of people--
this is really what
we're talking about--
this field of resonance
that's been created,
which has shifted
really since the--
well, let's say the beginning
of the 20th century,
but has certainly shifted since
the end of the Second Great
War of the World.
>>REGINA: There's a woman
named Monty Williams.
I don't know if you've
ever heard of her.
But what she does is--
and you know other people
who do voice analysis.
And they go through,
and it shows
you a graph of the notes that
are prominent and missing
in your voice.
Now, one thought is we
should have all aspects,
the entire range in our voice.
But is that even true?
Are there people
where you simply
resonate in these few areas,
and that is your full voice,
or are we all missing
pieces of ourselves?
>>PEARCE: Well, if we are
really sounding from our note,
we're sounding from the
very center of our compass.
We're in harmony.
So if we're in harmony, it
means that we have access
to every single
part of our range,
part of our being.
(HIGHER PITCHED TONE) But if
we're just living in here,
then all we do is
resonate this way--
(NORMAL VOICE)
--rather than going--
>>REGINA: You're hurting my--
>>PEARCE: --through the
whole of our bodies.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: So this is the voice
of the emotional resonance.
This is the voice, I believe,
of the persona, which literally
means through sound, that we
use in relation to personality,
which is the word that
we use to describe
the very quality of
somebody's being.
Actually what we're doing is
talking about their sound.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about sound today.
And then we're going to get
into some of what you teach.
So we can find a takeaway
in this-- everybody
can find their takeaway.
Listening to voices
today is very painful.
Even news anchors.
It used to be you had to have
a resonant, smooth, beautiful
voice, male or female, in
order to be a news anchor,
whether it's in England,
Germany, France,
the United States.
Now we're hearing a
lot of what you just
did, those parliamentarian
types of very
nasally, tight, tight voices.
They almost have an edge that
sounds a little mean to them,
they're so tight.
What is going on with
that particular phenomena
in both men and women?
>>PEARCE: Well, it's
produced by a state
of supreme physical
tension, number one.
Secondly, it's a voice that
has, for the individual, a ring
of authority.
Because they're
only living here.
They don't have
to live down here.
to feel something.
(HIGHER PITCHED
TONE) They're just
living in the pixelation
of opinionation
and arguing about
their own opinions--
(NORMAL VOICE) --rather than
moving into this area, where
we start to experience value.
>>REGINA: So
there's no breathing
that's happening between here.
>>PEARCE: Well, I mean, the
first thing that happens
is that you squidge
the back of the tongue.
This is my tongue.
So you squidge it--
(NASALLY VOICE) --right up
against the soft palate.
And so all you do is
produce nasality down
through the nasal passages.
And so, in turn, I feel a
characterization coming on,
you know?
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
You're doing it well.
>>PEARCE: But if I drop
the back of my tongue,
the whole of my throat opens.
And the resonance opens
through the whole of my being.
The channel of the voice opens.
But it comes through
supreme tension.
Most of us are running
around scared all the time.
And I feel that the people
that you're speaking about,
who are, at the
moment, for example,
in this great nation, who
are leading mass media
communications, that
there's a tremendous amount
of competition within their
own status to stay there
as anchor people, to
bring whatever news they
wish to bring forth.
And then that begins
a huge thesis.
A--
>>REGINA: Oh, well--
>>PEARCE: --whole substance of--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
First of all, just
for the women alone
to remain a size two to
six in your cocktail dress
for news time.
The competition between them and
for those positions, of course,
is terrifying.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so you're
saying the fear is causing--
first of all, they're mental.
They're in fear.
This causes a pressure
at the top of the palate,
right, with the
tongue moving back.
>>PEARCE: (NASALLY TONE) It's
about controlling, you see?
>>REGINA: And you're not moving.
They're not breathing.
>>PEARCE: (NASALLY TONE)
There's no oscillation.
There's no versatility.
I'm just stuck.
I'm controlling, I'm
controlling, because actually,
deep inside, I'm
really frightened.
>>REGINA: Did you
ever speak like that?
>>PEARCE: Never.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Never, he says.
>>PEARCE: But it's to do
with a state of mind--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: --and a state
of being, do you see?
Because I believe that
what we're talking about
is a sound that we
have deep within us,
that we remember
from our childhood,
that we were influenced by
during our childhood, which
I refer to as being the
metaphoric consciousness.
If we go back and
we listen to JFK,
if we listen to Bobby Kennedy,
if we listen to Martin Luther
King, just to mention
three great speakers,
you hear them speaking
through the essence
of poetry, which is the
metaphoric condition
of our consciousness.
(NASALLY TONE) As opposed
to being purely mechanistic.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PEARCE: I sat on
a plane yesterday
to arrive here, to be
with you, and the plane
was delayed for some time.
And I watched, I
think, 300 people
spending all of their journey--
and we were delayed by an
hour-and-a-half on the tarmac--
simply on their cell phones,
scrolling, scrolling,
scrolling.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>PEARCE: I mean, this level of
pixelation is so destructive.
I had a huge
headache as a result
of all of that negative
ionization taking place.
(NASALLY TONE) So if that's
happening, then you're caught,
aren't you?
>>REGINA: So you have Diana,
who has a pretty young voice.
I mean, to begin, she had a
pretty little voice, a girl
voice, that developed into a
rounder, more resonant, more
full voice.
You have her
husband, Charles, who
never had anything but a full
voice, a full resonant voice.
It's like he was groomed
for that from birth, right?
And so, he was able
to possess that.
She had to learn it because
she wasn't born into it.
And yet, OK, the Queen.
The Queen has quite
a tiny little voice,
like, a little girl voice.
>>PEARCE: If you hear
her when she was a child,
everybody said that the
queen thanked everybody
from the bottom of the heart
on the top of her voice.
And now, she tends
to thank everybody
from the bottom of the heart
and the bottom of her voice.
Maturity does change
us, physiologically.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: Our bodies
change, of course.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: But the point about
Diana was that she used a very
breathy voice--
>>REGINA: Yes, it
was very breathy.
>>PEARCE: --like this.
And so, that didn't give
her a sense of gravity,
or a sense of center,
or a sense of wholeness,
or sense of being grounded.
And what I did was to
initially work on the breath
so that she could actually feel
herself sitting in her breath--
(HIGH-PITCHED TONE) --rather
than riding above the breath.
I mustn't breathe too much.
Otherwise, probably,
they will discover
who I am, et cetera, et cetera.
>>REGINA: Well,
besides doing scales--
mi, mi, mi, you, you, you--
besides that, what are some of
the techniques people listening
to this, who say, jeez,
I could do better.
I've heard myself in
a recording recently.
I didn't like it.
What are some things we can
do to start taking on our more
authentic voice?
>>PEARCE: That's such a
complex question to answer
because we're all--
>>REGINA: I know, you've
written a whole book on it.
>>PEARCE: --different
and myriad.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: The key that I'm
really presenting is this idea
of, how can I open up
the whole of the vessel
of my voice, the whole
attunement of my voice?
And the first thing is to
concentrate on the breath
and release this stricture
in the back of the tongue.
OK, so how do we do this?
[VOCALIZING]
One is tight.
One is free.
All I'm doing is--
[VOCALIZING]
Now, if I carry on
talking to you like this,
you're going to feel very
soothed, very easy, very
harmonious.
You're going to be drawn
into the conversation.
This is the voice
that I've actually
encouraged great actors to
use over the last 40 years,
and it's called
the magnetic voice,
which is crucial for
great actors to entrain.
I'm thinking more about
being on stage and on camera
because something
slightly different
as being used on camera
because the microphone is
right here right.
But on stage, how do I
literally entrain, how do I
embrace 2,000 people who
listen to me in this moment
so that I don't see anybody
moving, that they're literally
spellbound by the magic of
what my characterisation is all
about?
What sound will do
is to create that.
That's the leading
aspect of my profession.
>>REGINA: Very few people--
when you run into the
average person on the street,
very few people speak with a
resonant or commanding voice
at all in the world right now.
In times past, you had
to learn some of that.
Even to be a salesman, you were
taught some of these traits,
in the '50s, and
'60s, and so forth.
But now, it's as though
the voice doesn't even
matter anymore.
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so, I'm doing
something about that.
Because, obviously, the voice
does-- the voice of change,
which is what my project is--
Diana, the voice of
change-- the voice of change
is that we can no longer
go on in this careering
fashion with our output,
with the fascination
of whatever assignment
we're involved in,
that there's something
crucial that needs to shift.
>>REGINA: Isn't
there a fear, though,
that we're afraid of actually
positioning ourselves
as standing in our power?
>>PEARCE: Yes, of course,
that's what I'm talking about.
>>REGINA: Yes, there's
just a fear of being seen.
>>PEARCE: What we need
to do is to look into--
because there are
visionaries in our midst.
There are inspirational
people in our midst,
particularly in this great
nation, both women and men,
who are informing us.
I mean, all we have to do is
look at-- in the mind, body,
spirit community, Marianne
Williamson, or indeed,
at Oprah.
That's just to mention two.
I mean, forgive me all the
other extraordinary people
that I could flash through
in the diary of my mind,
in the chronicle of my mind.
They're actually indicating
a new way of being.
And as a result of
that, we're beginning
to recognize that I
need to understand
how I can become the powerful
person that I wish to be.
How do I do this?
I don't mean become a celebrity.
I mean, how do I actually
gain my own power.
That's the core of
the work that I do.
>>REGINA: We're going to
get to that in a moment.
Let's talk about manipulation
of what we've become first.
So there's a certain
cadence of manipulation,
and this is known by virtually
every reverend pastor
and priest.
There's a cadence,
a coupling of words,
and the way the words
drop off and have
a finality at a certain
point that is very hypnotic.
Politicians use it.
Priests use these words as well.
Oftentimes, professors
use the same cadence.
And it does manipulate a person
into almost a hypnotic trance.
Can you talk a little
bit about that?
Because, oftentimes, we fall
under the sway of these people.
>>PEARCE: Well,
it really ties in
or is a parallel with
what I was saying earlier
on about the fact that we
assume a vocal delivery
by the influence
of the individuals
that we see as being powerful
because we don't feel powerful.
We want to be part of
that, whether they're
leading politician, or a leading
states person, or a leading
churchman, or a leading
corporate identity,
or a leading teacher, we feel
that we want to be like that.
>>REGINA: So what is
it they're doing that--
[VOCALIZING]
>>PEARCE: Oh, you're
talking about something
slightly different.
>>REGINA: Yes, the cadence.
>>PEARCE: You're talking
about a falling inflection.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: The
falling inflection.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: OK, the
falling inflection
has come about
because we're being
encouraged to think and speak
in really short sentences.
>>REGINA: OK, so give us an
example of what that sounds
like so people--
>>PEARCE: OK, so
the short sentence
doesn't allow us to breathe.
Because we, human beings,
whatever language we speak,
we always have enough breath
for the thought that we speak,
which is fundamental
to the actor, OK?
So you will take contemporary
text of today, and what we hear
is--
[VOCALIZING]
--because the
sentences are so short.
But if you do that
with Shakespeare,
I mean, for example--
I say Shakespeare simply
because we go back 400 years,
we suddenly begin to realize
that the writers were
writing in much longer
thoughts than the ones
that we use today.
If we go just to the
end of the 19th century,
we realize that
Dickens' sentences
are sometimes paragraphs-long.
Whereas, today, we think
in this pixelated form.
So our breath is being affected.
I had a young actor
with me the other day,
who's learning "Henry V."
And I said, "OK, well, we won't
work on a speech of Henry's,
but let's work on a prologue."
And he said, "Thus,
with imagined wing,
our swift scene flies.
>>REGINA: This is what
I'm talking about.
>>PEARCE: --in motion
of no less celerity."
So I said, how does that feel?
And he said, awful.
So I said, OK.
Now, look, what I
want you to do is
to recognize that the
thought begins there,
and it ends there.
Now, just breathe and speak
all the way to the end.
And he said, "Thus,
with imagined wing,
our swift scene flies
in motion of no less
celerity than that of thought."
Oh, my God, that makes sense.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: So you
see, it's led him
to the conviction of his
own authenticity as opposed
to using a rhythm.
Because in journalists or
in media communications,
no, you mustn't
use polysyllables.
You mustn't use superlatives.
You have to write
just four words,
and that's your sentence.
I mean, it's crazy.
>>REGINA: It is.
And I have even found
myself that we're
so used to speaking in such
brief sentences anymore.
Everything's been reduced
to something so simple.
I'll find that if I'm
trying to articulate
a difficult or
complex thought, I'll
start running out of breath
by the end of the sentence.
>>PEARCE: Indeed.
So we're all becoming
immensely stressed
as a result of not
having the breath.
Therefore, our
bodies are becoming
injured and full of disharmony.
So no wonder we're in dis-ease.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So now, going back to
Diana, working with Diana--
and not just Diana--
you do workshops around
the world for people,
whether they're on
stage or whether they're
in a more of maybe a
corporate capacity or whatnot,
to be able to bring
themselves to the table.
Let's talk about what
that course looks like.
And sometimes it's
just people, people
that have a little money that
want to come across better
within society.
>>PEARCE: I work through a whole
cross-section of our world.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: So it can be
with a states person.
It can be with a
member of royalty.
It can be with a priest.
It can be-- it can
be with a teacher.
I just worked with one of
the world's leading quantum
physicists.
Nobody was going
to his lectures.
Everything was
online, and nobody
was going to his lectures.
>>REGINA: Tell us about that.
[LAUGHTER]
How does that work?
>>PEARCE: So somebody
said, you should go and see
Stewart Pearce.
And so, my PA said, by the
way, one of the world's leading
quantum physicist.
And I said, why?
Why is he coming to me?
>>REGINA: No one will
understand him anyway.
>>PEARCE: Because--
my PA, who is amazing,
said, because you're
the maestro, Stewart.
You'll be able to work magic
with this gentleman, who
arrived, and he was speaking
in a completely monodimensional
way.
I mean, everything was
really flat, like this,
and really, there
wasn't any inflection,
so you weren't compelled
to listen whatsoever.
It was deeply boring.
But also, the whole
of that statement
arose from his physical body.
So I thought, OK, well, I'm
going to approach it like this.
And I said, "Well, you're one
of the world's leading quantum
physicists.
Where did it all begin?"
And he's, "What do you
mean where did it begin?"
And I said, "Well,
what enticed you?
What invoked you?
What inspired you?"
And he said, "Well."
And then, he told me the story.
And the story was
extraordinary, immaculate.
He was seven years of age.
His parents were leading
dons at Cambridge,
and they were appointed
to Princeton here.
So it meant uprooting the
family and coming over here,
so he lost all of his charms
because he was a single child
in this two-parent family.
They moved into
this extraordinary,
it seemed, very Gothic house,
a clapboard house with one
of those extraordinary, as
one sees in New England.
And his bedroom was
right at the top,
completely isolated,
socially disenfranchised.
He pushed his bed up
against the dormer window.
And at night, he would
lie and look at the stars.
And one night, his father
saw a light under the door.
Because we all know the torch
underneath the bed sheets
so that you could read
and look at the stars.
And his father
came in, and rather
than punishing his child,
he, the following day,
brought him a telescope.
So he became absolutely
invigorated by the stars.
Now, all the way through this
story, he became animated.
>>REGINA: He was
using his voice.
>>PEARCE: He was suddenly
living this passion.
And I said, "Well done.
Look at the revelation."
He said, "Oh, my God,
that was amazing."
I said, "Well, that's what
you need to be doing."
And he said, "But I
couldn't do that."
"Why?
Why," said I. "Well,
because I have
to sound in a certain way."
So we're back to
the coder, you see,
and the coder does not work.
The cerebralization
does not work.
We're beginning to see this
in all forms of leadership
because we don't believe in
what they're saying to us.
And so the word authenticity
is like wildfire
through our world.
It's just that we don't define,
well, what does that mean?
And what it really means
is, am I in my note?
Am I really in my harmony?
>>REGINA: It also means,
are you in your truth?
>>PEARCE: Well, because
when we're in our note,
you can't lie.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PEARCE: You see, it comes from
that very core of who you are.
And this is what Diana wanted.
>>REGINA: And this
is what you were
trying to help her with is just
express what's in your heart.
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so that can end up
being a very loaded situation,
speaking from your
heart in situations
where you necessarily want
your heart known, right?
And that's what
everybody's running from.
>>PEARCE: Well, to
think of it in this way.
It's about how we elicit
individuals so that we
have harmonious relationships.
And we all want connection.
You know, Brene Brown-- the
great Brene Brown-- is talking
about this on major
stages in relation
to vulnerability, and
authenticity, and immediacy,
and how we are socially
hardwired for connection.
So we're all dying
for this level.
I just helped a young
one in the hotel
where I was staying overnight,
because she brought me
the most beautiful breakfast.
And she was looking
really unhappy.
And I said, "Are you OK?
Good morning.
Are you OK?"
Over my wonderful omelet.
And she said, "No, I'm not.
I'm feeling really"-- so we have
this wonderful moment, where
she said, "Oh, my
God, who are you?
This was amazing."
Well, we had this
moment of sharing,
very deep-- it was
transformative for her.
She moved through catharsis.
Because nobody else
was listening to her.
>>REGINA: Did she go
from squeaky to heart?
>>PEARCE: She went
from squeaky into--
and then she said,
"Can I do something?"
And I said, "What
are you going to do?"
[LAUGHTER]
And she said, "Can I hug you?"
So we moved from up into--
and her heart was pumping
as I held her, you know?
She became real.
>>REGINA: So this is the
journey of all of us right now
in a time of extreme fear--
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --and
polarization, like where
Diana was at the time, is
that we must find the courage
to be able to simply take a
breath and tell our truth,
speak our truth from our heart.
>>PEARCE: Particularly
post-COVID, which was all about
don't breathe because you might
become sick or COVID itself.
I mean, the horror
of COVID, of course,
affected our respiration in
the most extraordinary way.
>>REGINA: Well, what you're
saying is to be vulnerable.
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And that's what we all
try to protect ourselves from.
>>PEARCE: And that's what
Diana showed us, you see.
She showed us how she could
be equitably vulnerable,
not just with us, with
the common people,
but also in the situation which
is not based on vulnerability.
It's based on pure mystique,
a mystique that used to work,
but no longer does.
>>REGINA: No, it does not.
OK, do you mind if I--
OK, thank you for all of
the information regarding
what's needed of
humanity to step forward
and step into our voices.
Your book has a ton
of exercises and ways
in which you can do this.
You do workshops on that.
Now, can we ask you a few
personal salacious questions?
>>PEARCE: [GASPS] Oh, dear.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: OK, I know you a bit.
And so, Prince Philip
was like a father to you
when your father died.
Let's just, for a moment, talk
about your family connections.
So some of how
this all came about
and how you found this part of
yourself rather early in life.
Your father was--
>>PEARCE: My father worked
for the Duke of Edinburgh,
and they were very
close for many years,
for 35 years, because dad was
awarded the RVO, the Royal
Victorian Order, which
is a special order that's
given by the monarch
for her servants.
And dad had met
his Royal Highness
through Earl Mountbatten,
who was Prince Philip's
uncle and a great character
within the British royal
family, during the war years.
And so, there was this
early introduction.
And dad moved into
service, post-war,
and worked for the
young Princess Elizabeth
and the young Prince Philip.
And then, of course,
the late King died,
and she became queen.
So he continued.
So I was brought up
in all of that, yes.
In other words,
brought up in service,
but also brought up in the
celebration of tradition
and heritage, which
is a fundamental part
of my personality that I address
now through the archetypal keys
that certain individuals
can fulfill in our world.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about that.
So Prince Philip, at one
point, was almost like a father
to you after your father passed.
You knew him well.
And you say, there
is a part of you
that is very deeply traditional.
At the same time, we see,
through Princess Diana,
that much of this tradition
must crumble and die.
Over to you.
>>PEARCE: I don't
necessarily speak about it
from a sociological or from
a political point of view.
I express it through that really
interesting and mystical area
of our consciousness, where
we look into the archetypes,
and we see that they're
keys into our consciousness.
The Elizabethans
believed, fundamentally,
in developing an understanding
of the lover, the warrior,
the sovereign, and the magician.
And that when
we're living those,
we can begin to really
access fundamental aspects
of our being.
So I am an anarchist,
but I'm also
a great believer in the
values that are handed down.
>>REGINA: Stewart,
any final thoughts?
>>PEARCE: Oh, my goodness.
>>REGINA: We're out of time.
I mean, I could ask you
about so many people
because so many
people personally
and ask you to do
impersonations of their
before and after voice, but
we don't have time for that.
Maybe one.
Can you give us one, one
famous before and after.
>>PEARCE: Oh, God,
I can't even think.
My final thought is really
returning to the premise
that's emerged so often
through our conversation, which
is to do with the
nature of authenticity
and how, if we don't
conjure this force within us
through our own
self love and then
love of other, and through
the kindness and the delicacy,
the reverence or,
indeed, the grace,
as we've been saying,
of revering other,
if we don't do this, our world
is going to destroy itself.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
"The Voice of Change."
Stewart, thank you so much.
>>PEARCE: Bless you.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: Until we meet again,
hopefully in London next time
before Gaia again.
Safe travels, and good luck on
your fundraisers and everything
else, all your coaching.
I know the book's
doing really well.
So again, the title of
the book is "Diana--
The Voice of Change," which you
can find at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]